# Anopheles data from VectorBase

The file `genes_20230311.txt.gz` was downloaded from VectorBase (https://vectorbase.org/vectorbase/app/) on 2023-03-11

Genes assigned to no orthology group (NA) or to no chromosome (UNKN) or to the Y chromosome (Y_unplaced) are discarded.  
Genes included into another gene are discarded.

The species tree `species_tree_4.newick` was obtained from <a
href="https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1258522">Highly evolvable
malaria vectors: The genomes of 16 *Anopheles* mosquitoes</a> (Figure
1).  The branch lengths on the species tree are in million years.

Four species were selected, the 4 species that are assembled at the chromosome level: 
*Anopheles gambiae PEST, Anopheles atroparvus EBRO, Anopheles funestus FUMOZ, Anopheles albimanus STECLA*.

The data were generated by selecting gene families that have only
genes on the X chromosome and at least one gene present in 3 of the
X chromosomes of the 3 considered species and of minimum size (number 
of genes) 3. There are 554 such gene families.

The command to generate the data from the data file is:

```
gunzip genes_20230311.txt.gz
python ./scripts/VectorBase_utils.py build \
       genes_20230311.txt \
       X \
       'AnophelesgambiaePEST AnophelesatroparvusEBRO AnophelesfunestusFUMOZ AnophelesalbimanusSTECLA' \
       3 3 \
       ./ X_3
gzip genes_20230311.txt
python ../../scripts/newick_utils.py species species_tree_4.newick species_4.txt
```

The names of genes, orthology groups (gene families) and species were
modified to remove all non-alphanumeric characters.  The file
`genes_20230311.txt_map.gz` provides a map between renamed objects and
original names.

In the files `sequences_X_3.txt` and `gene_orders_X_3.txt` the base
directory used for the experiments whose results are provided in the
directory `example`(`/home/chauvec/projects/ctb-chauvec/`) has been
kept as it was for the experiments and should be modified in order to
reproduce the experiments.
